feat: 500.astro improvements (#11134)
withastro/astro: .changeset/rich-dolls-compete.md

---
"astro": minor
---

> Improves the developer experience of the `500.astro` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improves the developer experience of the `500.astro` file by passing it a new `error` prop.
```

> Improves DX around `500.astro`
> 
> The special `src/pages/500.astro` page now accepts an error as a prop. It can be anything so make sure to handle it properly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Improves the developer experience of the `500.astro` file.

The special `src/pages/500.astro` page now accepts an error as a prop. It can be anything, so make sure to handle it properly:
```

> The special `src/pages/500.astro` page now accepts an error as a prop. It can be anything, so make sure to handle it properly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an error is thrown, the special `src/pages/500.astro` page now automatically receives the error message as a prop. This allows you to display more specific information about the error on a custom 500 page.
```
For the changeset, (vs full complete docs), I wonder if we can get away with not having the second paragraph? I don't like "handle it properly" without getting into an explanation of what they need to worry about/do, and we're writing that in docs anyway. This is just the taste of what's new and cool!

(Also, is the above correct? I like focusing on the use of it)

> When an error is thrown, the special `src/pages/500.astro` page now automatically receives the error as a prop. This allows you to display more specific information about the error on a custom 500 page.

Reviewer 3: Should we document that the `error` prop only works when dynamically rendering `500.astro`? Since we can't get an error after it's prerendered.

Also, perhaps docs-specific but we should also caution about printing the error entirely as stuff like `.stack` may expose the server implementation.

Author: True, I'll update both changeset and docs

```astro
---
// src/pages/500.astro
interface Props {
    error: unknown
}

const { error } = Astro.props
---

<div>{error instanceof Error ? error.message : 'Unknown error'}</div>
```

> Additionally, you can now use your custom 500 error page in development by setting the `ASTRO_CUSTOM_500` environment variable to `'true'`. For example, using a `.env` file:

Author: This is not true anymore after a PR from Ema, I need to update the PR

> Additionally, you can now use your custom 500 error page in development by setting the `ASTRO_CUSTOM_500` environment variable to `'true'`. For example using a `.env` file:
> 
> ```ini
> ASTRO_CUSTOM_500=true
> ```
> 
> Or inline:
> 
> ```sh
> ASTRO_CUSTOM_500=true astro dev
> ```
> 
> Note that if an error occur in this file, it will default to the host 500 error page in SSR, and the error overlay in development.

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
Additionally, you can now use your custom 500 error page in development by setting the `ASTRO_CUSTOM_500` environment variable to `'true'`. For example, using a `.env` file:

```ini
ASTRO_CUSTOM_500=true
```

Or inline:

```sh
ASTRO_CUSTOM_500=true astro dev
```

Note that if an error occurs in this file, it will default to the host 500 error page in SSR and the error overlay in development.
``````

> Note that if an error occurs in this file, it will default to the host 500 error page in SSR and the error overlay in development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an error occurs rendering this page, your host's default 500 error page will be shown to your visitor in production, and Astro's default error overlay will be shown in development.
```
This is the wording we took from docs, so we can reuse that here!
